The work of Robert Tennyson Stevens
brings new dimension to term "wordsmith."
With the friendly nudging of a college professor,
Robert delved into the language of the Hopi.
This simple decision changed his life.
He learned that the Hopi have no word for "now."
Why?
Because they always live in
and express themselves from the present,
which brings about the power of full manifestation.
Robert says this is what is needed now.
(soothing music)
Back in 1968,
you were a business and marketing student.
Yes.
And then things took an abrupt turn.
Can you tell us what happened?
Yes, I can.
A beautiful professor, Bryce Zender,
noticed that I looked different than the rest of the folks
in the marketing and business department.
I had long hair at the time.
1968, Vietnam was happening.
And he asked, "Hey, would you like to do
"an independent study? I give everybody A's.
"And I'm happy to give you an A."
And I said, "Well, yes. I'll do it."
And I picked the Hopi Indians 'cause I read a lot
about the Hopi Indians and loved--
It was a new belief system for me,
a new way to live peace instead of war.
And so, I went to him and said,
"I'm ready to do a study.
"I'd like to study, or do a syllabus and a study,
"on the Hopi."
And he said, "Cool."
"Study their language."
Now that didn't sound fun to me.
I knew their prophecies.
I mean, I'd studied all about it.
And he said, "No, I'd like you to study their language."
So I studied the work of Benjamin Lee Whorf,
who wrote a book called "Language, Thought and Reality."
He studied four primary cultures,
one of which was Hopi.
And my world literally transformed.
I was in a metamorphosis for months
and months and months.
Because of some basic languaging tenets.
What Whorf's work was about is
language shapes thought, which shapes reality.
And for me, I just read "Be Here Now" by Ram Das
so being here now was the deal.
And then I found a culture, a language,
which had a reality, a consciousness,
where now is so existent,
they didn't have to use the word "now"
to get back to now.
They're so present here, they couldn't get--
In other words, the rock wasn't over there for them.
You didn't need the word "now" because you
were already in the now.
Right.
And the rock wasn't separate from them, you know?
The earth is one with them so...
Long story short, it changed--
I began to wake up to
Wait a minute, my own thoughts, my own beliefs,
the words I'm using and hearing and listening to
in my spiritual life, in my practical life,
in my natural healing life, etc.
There's a code going on here,
for me.
There is a glitch.
Because if I'm--
If my language is all about separation and--
or others, in time and future past,
which is where all stress is,
and if now is the only time where my "I am" is,
where God is, where my healed state is--
well, it started a lot for me.
It was a big, big, big upgrade for me.
Well, and you were ahead of the curve
because these are subjects that are coming
into prominence now.
But you have a good 30-year jump start.
(chuckles) Yes.
35-year jump start on it.
So how did this lead then to the work you're doing now?
I'm passionate about natural health
so that was part--
one of the spokes of the wheel.
I'm passionate about herbology, homeopathy,
hydrotherapy, acupressure,
a system of healing developed by Dr. John Ray called
Body Electronics.
I began to work with people
and began to hear their languaging of--
in other words, I would say, "Why are you here?"
And every single person knew exactly
what was wrong with them.
Their words were defining
and agreeing with their limitation.
They didn't know what their heal state was.
When I say, "What is your goal?"
"To not feel this."
"To get rid of that."
In other words, none of those answers
were their heal state.
To feel happy.
To feel healthy.
To feel, you know, relaxed, calm.
To have my body work well.
My intestines work well, whatever.
They were always stating what isn't, what couldn't.
And I began to,
Ah, wait a minute, you know, you're--
I realize now, in consciousness, they were using
what I call the Babel Virus,
which got them sick,
to attempt to get not sick.
And we are beings of "what is" instead of "what isn't."
So you know, at some point, I woke up
to a languaging--
the bottom line is, instead of going,
attempting to heal them from outside in,
we get to change our tongue.
The bottom line is consciousness.
And we're a culture,
and in fact, we're a planet that speaks,
oftentimes, in the negative,
in terms of what is not happening or what--
By virtue of saying, "We would like to have"
means "We do not have", right?
Yes. Yes.
And so this is a virus.
That's exactly what I call it.
It's a Babel Virus.
When left untreated, it will result in disease or death.
Disease, death.
I mean, if somebody says, "I want love.
"I want love. I want love."
Want means to desire without having.
It means to lack.
So even if we--
like somebody says, "I wanna get married."
And they finally get married.
They're still in want of union.
They're in want of the consciousness
or experience of union or marriage.
So "I am married" is totally different than
"I want to be married" or "I want your love"
or "I want you to want me" or "I need--", you know.
The songs that we've all sung in the past,
which were really just babble, and rebooting.
And born out of separation.
Yes.
Loneliness.
Country blues, type of thing.
Yes. Yes.
We have so many areas we need to hop into
but just a little light one on,
is that why it's called babbling?
To babble?
Yes.
Well, that's my take.
Babylon. I mean, look at the word--
Babylon and Babel, it has like--
Babylon--
I have fun or fun-netics, so to speak--
(laughs)
with languaging.
And to babble is to state really what isn't,
and the Babel Virus, the language of
want, need, can't, try, etc.
is the language of what isn't.
It's the language of separation.
It's the language of struggle,
which is impossible to "I am that I am."
So let's be really linear for just a moment.
Sure.
Give us the words,
plain and clearly,
that do not serve us,
that most of us are using all day long.
I call this the domain--
I have 11 domains of self-sabotage,
where they group together in certain frequencies.
One is the Domain of Limitation and No Choice.
Like "I want", "I can't", "I need."
There's a Domain of Co-dependence.
"I'll feel good if you feel good."
There's a Domain of Outcome Almost,
where my goal is happiness.
Where is happiness?
How? What? With who? In what way?
So "I want", "I should", "I can't", "I need",
"I try", "I hope that I"--
"I hope" isn't bad, it's just--
As an example, "Honey, will you marry me?"
"I hope so."
It's not a good answer.
Right.
Any language, which seems politically correct
and yet doesn't connect with our outcome,
is what I call the language of Babel,
or the language of separation.
I call it the Domains of Limitation
or Domains of Self-sabotage.
Then there's a wake-up, a reboot possible,
which is being connected
so a lot of people say their goal is
you know, "Bob, what's your goal?"
"Happiness."
Happiness is a topic.
If I say, "My goal is my happiness."
Now I've started to make a new creation.
Happiness is just a word.
So we get to be in the picture.
A lot of people say," My goal is money."
Or "the money."
And upgrade that we have in conscious languaging is
"my money."
I mean, it's so wonderful to have people go from
"the money" to "my money."
"The planet" to "our planet."
I mean, what would--
You can feel it.
Yes.
You can feel it in your body.
Even when I'm listening to you,
the differentiation between the two is huge,
Yes.
in terms of how I experience
your saying those words.
Yes.
And it is huge to the individual.
I mean, sometimes what I say,
especially when I train my trainers,
is I say, "Most likely, you're gonna discover one word
"that you've been using automatically and unconsciously,
"that when you catch the word--"
Frequently, it's the word "that."
It's interesting I just said "that you catch"--
"When you catch the word and upgrade it,
"your entire life will change."
And then I say, "Your job is to find your one word
"in class, while we're all together."
And people, right away, find their one word.
And when they shift the word consciously,
instead of saying "that life", they say "my life,"
as an example, they start to have
their "my life" experience.
And what percentage, would you say,
of the people you've encountered in your lifetime
are subject to these kinds of thoughts
that aren't serving them?
100%, including myself.
And what I find, the now portion of this is
as we move upscale as a humanity,
Babel is getting louder and louder and louder.
I mean, the simple conversations of "I want to"
and "I can't" and "I need."
It literally--
The way I say it is,
If I'm going 200 miles an hour,
it's essential I put my attention on the road
and where I'm going.
So if our languaging is about,
let's get rid of--
let's not do, let's not be upset, let's--
That's what isn't.
And we go right off course again.
Having a language of first-person personal,
conscious creative, outcome-oriented,
at the speed and rate we're moving,
at the quality of connection going on,
through our internet,
through our mobile communications systems.
The amount of our world,
which is waking up to technology and communication,
I believe it's essential to thrive,
actually to exist, to make it,
we move from a domain of separation,
of limitation and struggle and lacking
you and me, and God is outside of us,
and our supply is outside of us,
to a language system, a belief system,
an ability to communicated of "I am that I am."
My love is here.
My Creator is within me, etc.
That's why it's so important right now.
And people are tired
of the feelings of separation.
I mean, in short, I think we're all fed up
with feeling separate, feeling alienated,
feeling them against us.
It's not working.
We can't really prosper going that direction anymore.
That's correct.
So I would like to take the languaging
into another area that a lot of people
have been working on for decades now,
since a lot of meditation books came into print,
which is visioning,
imagining, whatever you wish to call it,
a better future for ourselves,
and a practice of doing this,
which seems to be--
it seems to fall short in most cases.
Can you tell us what real imagining of a--
of who we are and what we desire is?
Versus what we've been doing.
I'll share with you my path.
I'd discovered my languaging peace
and being specific, etc.
and it worked half the time, for me.
And the people I worked with, half the time.
Then I read the work of Neville
who wrote a number of books,
"Seedtime and Harvest,"
"Your Faith is Your Fortune", etc.
And in a nutshell, Neville says to imagine
from the wish fulfilled,
not of it, toward it or about it,
which is the capstone.
I mean, I already had everything in place
except for this one state of imagining from
instead of toward so I--
So really simply...
Yes.
Tell us what that was like in your head
and what you transformed it into.
Well, what I realized--
I'll give you a couple of examples.
If my goal, if I was imagining
having an amount of money,
I would still be at getting the money,
even though I have my money,
that was fine.
What Neville said wasn't
"have the money."
He said imagine from having the money.
And what I realize, for me, is...
Oh, oh, my subconscious gets
where I'm imagining from,
when I'm imagining from.
So my subconscious is not bound by space or time.
So I had the languaging,
instead "I want money," "I have money"
but I didn't prove I have my money
by using my will and my creativity to imagine,
to trust enough, to actually go forth
from my desired state,
instead of figuring out
how my desired state is gonna happen.
So the subtle shift for me is--
I found my beloved wife when, you know,
I was looking, looking, looking for,
which means I don't have,
my beloved and I finally just said,
I found a statement in my own heart,
it's already in our own heart.
And I said, "I am my life of love. I am my love life."
And 10 days later, we were engaged.
(chuckles)
Now I shifted from "I am my perfect partner."
'Cause I didn't know what perfect meant.
I didn't have an idea for that.
To what my heart said,
"I am my love life, my life of love."
Boom. And I had her.
We were already together.
There is a state of consciousness,
which we can enter,
where we already have what we desire.
And I have it in a system
to share with my planet.
I do it all day long.
So we're in that state,
where we are, we're experiencing that which,
quote we have desired, but we're now experiencing
and coming from that state.
How do you do the practical shift?
And I think this dogs a lot of people.
How do you do the practical shift of being there
and then coming into the 3D world and you sit down.
You have to write your checks out.
Maybe you don't have enough to cover them
or whatever the problem is.
The first thing I do is,
you said it perfectly, is most people--
how do I be there?
Which means that there is not here.
That's part of the languaging peace.
So I mean, I have a lot of coaching.
One is A is current reality, in my system.
Sub-A is avoided or suppressed current reality.
Any goal set from outside of now will be off course.
A-B is process.
B is the outcome, which is what I had
before I met the Neville work.
B is the outcome.
The key is--
If I'm going to do my world,
having my dream fulfilled
by imagining from my outcome.
From B, my goal, I imagine from it.
I say, beyond B.
Oh, I feel, I have, I relax, I experience--
Let's say you are. You're there--
No, but this is more than just "are."
This is the trick.
"I am here" is B.
So when I am imagining from "I am it already."
I wake up, my new world,
I've experienced, and all of sudden,
what will happen is there's a signal--
Spirit breathes us.
We take an automatic deep breath,
or actually Spirit does it for us.
It's not a taking, it's (exhale)
and I breathe deep and I imagine from it.
I'm relaxed, I'm comfortable, I go out a year or two.
Then I ask myself,
and this is a part of the system,
What was the very first thing I did
to give myself my new B?
Which has become my current reality.
"Oh, I called Aunt Martha."
"I wrote a check."
"I mowed the lawn."
And those--
I can actually tell myself
what I did even though it hasn't been done yet
except in my imagination,
to get this and then I have my list of things to do.
It's probably four, five, six--
And that becomes your list.
And I go do those things in good faith,
they brought me my outcome and they do.
So faith is really the missing piece.
Yes.
It has been the missing piece.
Faith, grace, they're the same thing.
How do you take a person
who is lacking faith and really wants to do this,
really, really is going--
Committed...
has committed to doing this.
What are the first triggers that happen?
That inspire them to allow themselves to have faith?
What I've found is there's a way to ask a question,
which elicits a healing response.
It's the real magic of what I've found,
I'll just put it this way.
I know it already existed.
I found it.
So if somebody comes in
and they don't have enough faith to get their outcome,
and it's, you know, whatever it is,
"dis-pair", which means not paired,
you know, belief, where I've tried everything,
which means their subconscious says,
Okay, if they say I can't and I can prove it,
their subconscious says, "Okay."
So I say, "Well, now..."
I don't go fix that glitch in them. I say--
I ask them a question where it's already fixed.
I say that now that you have faith,
I didn't go get 'em faith,
I say, I just go further in their consciousness,
in their moment of now extended.
Now that you have faith,
and you're trusting,
what's new and different in your world?
Now that might be too big of a question.
So you say, alright, imagine you've had faith for a year.
If they're not readily able to do it,
two years, three years, five years,
sometimes it's 10 years.
Oh, and that big breath happens.
I now know Spirit just said yes.
Somehow their whole being just said yes.
Well, I'm relaxed, I'm comfortable.
You know, they all--
they enter a new set of consciousness.
If the time goes out 10 years,
or five or three or whatever it is,
I go this distance because
now their intellect doesn't have to figure
they have to do something.
I just shifted,
by asking them a question,
shifted their consciousness to already having faith.
And then they go embody faith.
Now, I'm relaxed, I'm comfortable,
I'm doing what I love to do, whatever it is.
I don't go back and fix it yet,
I go further.
Well, now go forward.
Now it's been another year,
what's new and different?
Pretty soon they begin to discover,
they turn the lights on in their consciousness,
of what their full-of-faith life is.
The further they go,
all of the fear states and doubt states,
and confusion states they had before,
starts to heal.
They get emotional
as they go forward.
They move forward and forward and forward.
I haven't gone to fix these specifically,
you know, we're just--
imagine quote, unquote, forward in their now,
they will take the energy trapped in their stuck-ness
stored in their body,
and it will come to the surface.
So it's much easier than going back and fixing the glitch.
I go forward to where the glitch is fixed
and then from there--
The new energetics are created there.
Yes.
And they withdraw and as I grab the energy,
we can't get rid of energy
so we're not gonna get rid of doubt.
We're gonna actually transform doubt.
It's energy.
We can re-claim it.
And send it forward.
So you can go back from that point.
Now you are in faith,
you are embodying faith.
You can look back, as you said, a little bit earlier,
at the elements of how--
Yep.
you reached the place you are.
Yeah.
I see.
And it's a list of what did I do to get there--
What did I do to get here.
And the miracle for me is, like in neurolinguistics,
if we look left, it's a memory, if we look right--
when I coach people, I teach this all in my classes,
to do it with each other.
When a person says,
"What was the first thing you did?"
"Well, I--" and they'll look left.
They'll remember something.
They won't create it, they'll remember what they did.
So it changes our neurology.
It's a fact already, which is so powerful.
And it's not just word.
It's also other elements of our life,
that feed into this and help support
our being now, here now,
Yes. Yes.
in our desired state.
Can you talk about some
of the other supportive elements of our lives?
Well, for me, I work with nutrition
as it relates to consciousness.
I work with our emotion as it turns into motion.
When I say body--
Feeling is the bottom line.
What we feel deeply is what exists.
So if I think about a new goal,
I'm only thinking about it.
If I imagine getting to the goal,
I'm just up to it.
If I eat, receive, enjoy my goal,
I have it yet I'm still connected to what I don't have.
If I imagine from it, now I've shifted my reality.
Imagining from my new goal and my imagination,
I feel new.
So I use 16 senses, you know?
Sense, sound, taste, smell, touch,
motion, direction, there's a lot to it.
And sometimes, if somebody can see it and hear it,
that's great.
And when they add maybe, smell it, you know?
One more sense, all of a sudden,
it actually happens and they're in their great--
they're weeping usually.
Or some shift happens in their body.
Their body chemistry changes.
If we were to do live cell analysis,
like looking at the blood,
their blood will change, before and after.
The iris of the eye will change frequently,
the sclera of their eye.
Their DNA potentially is shifting,
if our iris changes, which I study,
if our iris changes its structure,
I know we change somethin'.
We change some belief system,
even genetic, and we can change it.
You know, we're just an energy system.
We are not bound by our history.
And these are choices.
Every word is a choice.
Yes.
It's just that we're so programmed already.
We have to know--
transcend.
Yes. Time to wake up.
Time to wake up
and transcend our choice of words
and we were talking before we started taping,
and I noticed some emotions coming up as we were--
you were asking me questions,
showing me how this system works
on a more personal level.
And you asked me about my goal.
Where I'm very clear on what I'm here to do
but I start hedging and putting separation
through my words between what I know I am versus
what I'm trying to tell you I would like to be, for example.
What is this false modesty, this guilt, this whatever
that has really been,
that has permeated us?
I know some of it comes from religion,
comes from parents and whatnot,
but at large, what have we done to ourselves?
Yeah, that's a big--
that's a beautiful question.
Here's my take on it.
By believing in separation,
by, you know, my God is outside of me
and I have to go somewhere to get it,
or my money's outside of me, I have to go get it,
that kind of stuff.
Pretty soon, we begin to realize who we are.
And yet, sometimes those around us aren't comfortable
with our genius, our power, our creativity, our confidence.
I remember the time and the space,
the moment I gave up some of my genius
just to be comfortable, to be on the playground
in middle school.
And I've asked many, many people the same thing
and they remember.
They gave something up.
At some point, we as a humanity, or as an individual,
or as a collective, whatever we are, go
"Are we gonna worry--
"Find our lowest common denominator?
Or are we gonna be our highest common denominator?"
Do I need to make those around me comfortable
by belittling, or by being politically correct?
Or, that's serving outside,
if I serve my own heart,
will the love within my own heart bless everyone.
My experience, yes.
It's the only true win-win,
is by me winning as well as empowering win.
It's called love, is my take.
So we have to stop
keeping ourselves small from--
and hidden from our own truth of what we have,
And in languaging,
what we are.
instead of "we have to stop,"
I say, "Let's start serving love and our one-ness again."
To have to stop is just like--
Yes.
We're beings of what is.
Conscious language is a language of what is,
and when we tell kids, "Stop doing that."
They'll go do it.
"Don't come in late."
"How late? Is three too late?"
And then, you know, I did that all the time.
I'd come in too late.
And yet, if somebody says,
"Please be home on time to keep our family agreements."
Ooo, okay.
It's different.
Rather than "Don't you be late."
That's right.
Hmm-mm.
Or don't think about pink elephants
with purple polka dots, which we immediately do.
So "don't" and "isn't" would be
a couple of the words that are off the list immediately.
That's right. Yes.
Yeah, like isn't, wouldn't, couldn't, shouldn't, didn't,
are is not, would not, could not, should--
so "Is not this a beautiful day?"
is a what we're saying when we say,
"Isn't this a beautiful day?"
Let's say what is.
"It is a beautiful day."
Let's get into the language of what is,
which is the language of now,
which is the language of God.
So it changes it from a question
to a statement.
Don't we make the--
Don't we make that conversion ourselves,
taking what would be a direct statement into a question,
again, just to be polite, to be modest,
to feel as though we're engaging someone else?
"Isn't it a lovely day?" versus "It's a lovely day."
Or even saying, "Is it a lovely day?"
Go direct and--
a lot of people, when they learn languaging,
say, "Whoa, this is really direct."
Okay.
Very direct.
Let's be direct.
We're not comfortable with being that direct.
In the past.
I choose to be comfortable being direct.
I mean, just for a statement of outcome.
You know, the idea to need
to keep everybody comfortable doesn't work anyway.
It's true because we're not comfortable ourselves.
There's only one true comfort and it's within us.
There are other things you do as well.
One of them is essential oils.
To help support, staying in this presence,
this impeccable presence.
Can you talk a little bit about
how essential oils play into this?
Yeah, actually--
It would seem
somewhat incongruous but it's not.
Well, it's all frequency.
Way back in, boy, 70's,
in the early 70's, mid-70's, I started a company
called Back to Eden, to honor Jethro Kloss
who wrote the book "Back to Eden" about herbs.
And I started carrying all the essential oils I could get.
And I studied with a woman
by the name of Marion Jager who used essential oils,
pure ones, to help in,
like a limited belief system, when I studied with her,
a limited thought form, she would call them,
have a negative vortex.
Essential oils, the blood of the plant, natural,
have a positive vortex.
So she was able to find certain types of frequencies,
negative frequencies, apply oil to them, and--
like peppermint, as an example in her system,
was the dominant type and wintergreen was for those
who had fear of being dominated.
And she would demonstrate this all day long.
A couple would come in, one's dominant,
one has fear of being dominated.
She would put peppermint oil on the dominant one.
Wintergreen on the back of the neck.
Peppermint here for the dominant one.
Wintergreen on the back of the neck
for the fear of being dominated
and all of a sudden, the roles will reverse.
Seriously?
Really, and I just--
I know, from my experience,
that energy, the vortex of the energy of negative
for the dominant turned positive.
Cool 'em off.
I mean, they'd be going "Aw-ah."
'Cause they would change their energy
and the fear of being dominated,
back of the neck for that person,
they'd start to have courage and confidence.
So you know, there's a whole system of beautiful oils,
blood of the plant, you know, it's been said,
when a man is low on faith, feed him herbs.
So you know, herbs and essential oils,
that's the blood of the plant,
it's the highest frequency within the plant.
And right now, it's time to restore
faith, trust, security, assured-ness, hope,
honor, valor, that kind of stuff.
So you know, that's the beauty of having--
Is this absolute?
In particular, I've used essential oils for years for--
to make myself--
lift my spirits up,
or to get rid of a sour stomach or whatever.
But are you saying when you use peppermint,
for example, on your forehead,
that this is an absolute with most human beings,
in terms of their reaction to it.
Well, or action.
Or their action.
I don't work in the world of absolute.
I just say that it can benefit many and try it, you know,
"prove all things and hold fast to that which is good."
But by and large,
By and large, yes.
these principles apply and you've seen this--
Yes, very much so.
in your own practice.
Yeah, in fact, every couple hours, in my events, I'll--
I usually pass out peppermint. People--
After a while, they're going--
You know, 'cause they know it.
It works.
It clears, or it wakes up, or inspires.
Yes, I love peppermint and wintergreen both.
Going along into the subject of fear
because I think most people must find their way to you
because there's something in their being
that they're fearful of,
whether it's not to have a--
to not have the relationship they want,
or to be in fear about a family dynamic, or finances.
But the way you put it is,
fear is faith returning.
What does that mean?
Well, in my discovery, as people would move upscale,
I woke up to this notion that every emotion,
I'm gonna call it, against love,
you know, like there's only one true motion in life
and that's love.
Everything else is an emotion, that's my view of it.
So fear, when we have fear,
we actually have faith that got suppressed.
If we have anger,
we have action, authority and loving,
let's say, forgiveness, suppressed.
So somebody's in a state of fear, as an example,
that's really the frequency of courage, confidence, faith,
assured-ness, trust, etc.
So if I'm with somebody about their emotion,
usually it's, if somebody says, "I'm terrified."
I say, "Are you feeling it or avoiding it?"
Ultimately, they'll say, "I'm either hating it,
"avoiding it or trying to get rid of it."
Which means they're not feeling it.
So when we get present with something
being made of God, spirit of light and love,
when we touch our fear,
all of a sudden, our fear loses its power.
When we know what our fear turns into,
it's like replacement therapy.
When we know our fear actually is our courage
or faith or trust returning,
we can touch it with love, announcing,
we take authority over the energy
and turn it into something.
So now, it's like an akito move.
People feel, I remember calling a person,
one time, somebody had done a training,
I said, "Hey, how're doing?"
He goes, "I have massive courage returning."
Which means he was actually
experiencing terror in his life
(chuckles)
or he knew what it was.
So the beauty of understanding what
like grief turns into joy.
Once we know that, we know,
"Oh, if I've got a lot of grief up,
"I'm really--
"it's pushing up because joy is attempting
"to get back into my life."
So we can look at it almost in reverse.
If we have fear, this means that we have courage
that's returning to our life.
Yes, and to claim it.
And if we have not enough,
that means abundances--
Exactly.
popping up.
That's attempting to, or it is returning to our life.
I'll give you an example.
I learned this when--
Scripture says, "Our greatest weakness
"shall be our greatest strength."
I'll tell you my story.
I used to terrified to speak in public.
Terrified. Phobic.
I would get cement in my mouth.
And look--
I do it now.
But I also thought back further,
when I was born, I was born tongue-tied.
Well, my tongue was actually attached
so I wouldn't be able to talk.
And it got cut free and you know, at birth.
Well, I came to cut tongues free.
Each person has--
whatever their--
If we can find our weakness,
it's waiting to turn into our strength,
It's getting us stronger
to become magnificent about us.
Somebody's been terrified in their life.
When they get over it,
their love, their confidence, their compassion,
and their courage, is--
we get it.
Just by being in their presence.
So you know, the more we understand
energy is just here, waiting for us to bring it love,
and turn it into a miracle.
Now that's--
Heal it.
Yes.
My weakness would be
my endocrine system, in this lifetime.
Which is feelings.
And you talk about this at length, don't you?
Yes, I do.
I have a whole--
So how does our endocrine system--
I was reading about this in one of your articles.
How does that feed into the process of being here now?
Well, even when we speak about imagination,
what I find is, our entire endocrine system
gets to be working, to imagine really,
to functionally imagine.
So much of my work is,
how do we get our endocrine system working?
Pineal is enthusiasm.
Pituitary is pain.
Thyroid and parathyroid is anger.
Thymus, heart is fear.
Pancreas and adrenal is grief.
A spleen, even though it's part of the endocrine system,
is apathy.
"I can't", "it's hard."
Reproductive system is unconsciousness.
In the downward.
So when we go from unconsciousness, apathy, grief,
fear, anger, pain, enthusiasm,
we're also activating our entire endocrine system,
our vortex system.
And so, we as beings of light
with different frequencies in our body,
get to move from the creative power through
into "I can",
into joy and specificity,
into courage, which fear is into courage,
and into forgiveness and authority and loving action,
into intuition, pain turns into intuition,
and then entheos, enthusiasm,
(mumbles), pineal.
So there's this whole frequency in our body,
a divine electronics,
which we can find where we are
and then go back to that replacement process.
If we have thymus as an issue,
or heart stuff as an issue,
we know love and courage are
being asked of our great spirit within us.
So it's an amazing blueprint we can follow
and track and have guidelines
to move upscale into.
Even the eyes are a blueprint, you say.
Well, and that shows our whole being.
So again, I do this thing,
it's a form of iridology, sclerology and pupil tonus,
which I call Bio-Optic Holography,
my version of those things.
And when I read somebody's eyes, I read--
translate their body into thought, word,
emotional patterns,
engage them so they understand it.
"Oh, yes, I felt this way, yes, oh yes."
And then stay with them as they begin to find
their strength returning.
Literally their mission in life can be revealed
through our eyes.
I believe we all know that anyway.
I mean, when we make eye contact,
we know everything there is to know about each other.
So, might as well get onto this thing so--
You have an incredible power
of observation that you've developed
because you're looking at body language,
you're listening to every word a person says,
you can intuit from their endocrine system,
you're looking in their eyes,
so you're saying who we are
is written in every aspect of our being
Yep.
and we're not that hard to read.
No.
If you know how to do it.
Yeah, so most of us get it anyway,
it's just like, nice to know what's up.
I mean, whether it's our ear, our fingertips,
or the microcosm and the macrocosm are connected,
mirroring each other.
Would you mind giving us a success story?
Something that really touched your heart,
in terms of somebody that you've worked with,
which was somebody who may have been
in a desperate state and what they were able to do
by being vigilant with this process.
Oh, I have lots and lots and lots.
Yes, just pick one or two,
most people love hearing--
Sure.
I love hearing these stories.
Just yesterday, we had,
in fact, this is gonna be part of our DVD set
on Sacred Body Language Translation.
A young man stood up to demonstrate,
you know, and find out what his body was saying,
and he had an issue with not feeling confident
and approval from his brother.
Major, major deal in his life.
15 years young.
Beautiful soul.
And by just staying with him until he made a choice
and then he--
his brother had been challenged
with alcohol and drugs and--
older brother, and hadn't been home,
and hadn't seen him and yet he's waiting for approval
from his brother and realized, you know,
it comes from within and then he realized,
I can heal my brother with my love,
and I heal my brother with my love.
Whew, it's emotional.
Next day, next morning, his brother shows up.
"I'm ready to get healed."
Now that 15 year old boy found his heart,
spoke it in conscious language,
and had his brother miraculously ask for help.
I worked with him the next day after that.
Miracles happen.
We're just miracles waiting to happen,
Moment to moment to moment.
And so, instead of focusing on what's wrong,
or what he doesn't have, this young man,
he claimed what he chose,
I'm healing my brother with my love.
And he had it (finger snap) within,
usually it's within 24 hours.
I mean, who knows, whatever time.
And yet, we can do anything.
I just, as a coach, get to be willing
to feel right along with him.
Because it's powerful.
Yes, it is powerful.
And a 15 year old person, on one level,
has experienced so little in life,
you might say, it's even easier to absorb
some of these new ideas and thoughts.
What about a success story from someone
who has been in the trenches for a long time.
In my experience,
everybody I work with has a success story.
I mean, so, when I take somebody--
I'll give you one example.
There's a woman who was 65, as I remember.
She was taking one of my conscious language courses,
and she stood up and didn't what she was saying.
She said, "I know I want--
"I've been wanting my husband for 40 years--"
to do something, whatever it was, I chose to remember,
and you know, I just played back, "wanting him"?
And she goes, "Oh! I have been wanting him."
So she just said, "Well--"
And she just made--
"I am empowering him--"
Whatever, she made new choice.
That was the third day of the class,
it was a four-day class.
She came in the next morning, a new woman.
And she got up there, same kind of emotion I'm expressing,
and said, "He had already done, by the time I got home,
"what I'd been wanting him to do for 40 years."
She changed her consciousness of her partner.
So how would you have
changed that language?
She just went from "I want" to "I see him doing it"
or "I claim he does it" or "I--"
Whatever, she made a shift in language
and I'll give you another real simple one.
A woman I know, a professional, had
at that point, a three year old child,
she was making revenue for their family.
Her husband who was in real estate was making,
you know, like $10,000 a year,
and she was resentful.
She realized, "Well, I'm resenting him."
So she just changed her mind.
She imagined herself retired,
taking care of her daughter,
as a professional, a physician,
and she imagined--
she made an agreement,
and could feel her husband successful.
From that moment on, every six months,
he brought in a $160,000 every six months.
She retired.
And he didn't change anything.
She changed her agreement
about her life and her beloved husband.
And he flourished.
So how does that work in quantum field?
You change your perceptions.
The perception around us.
Yeah, our inner speech becomes our outer reality.
You know, as a man, as a woman,
thinketh, in our heart, a big deal,
so are we.
And it gets to be in our heart,
our own heart, our own feelings,
our own joy, our own thriving.
(soothing music)
Incredible work.
Another of our speakers that is in alignment
with the conscious use of our words and our thoughts
is Dr. John Demartini.
I use the work of both of these men
to put myself by on track when I become clouded.
Until next time, thanks for watching.
(soothing music)